README.md, before:

# The Go Programming Language

Go is an open source programming language that makes it easy to build simple,
reliable, and efficient software.

![Gopher image](https://golang.org/doc/gopher/fiveyears.jpg)
*Gopher image by [Renee French][rf], licensed under [Creative Commons 3.0 Attributions license][cc3-by].*

Our canonical Git repository is located at https://go.googlesource.com/go.
There is a mirror of the repository at https://github.com/golang/go.

Unless otherwise noted, the Go source files are distributed under the
BSD-style license found in the LICENSE file.

### Download and Install

#### Binary Distributions

Official binary distributions are available at https://golang.org/dl/.

After downloading a binary release, visit https://golang.org/doc/install
for installation instructions.

#### Install From Source

If a binary distribution is not available for your combination of
operating system and architecture, visit
https://golang.org/doc/install/source
for source installation instructions.

### Contributing

Go is the work of thousands of contributors. We appreciate your help!

To contribute, please read the contribution guidelines at https://golang.org/doc/contribute.html.

Note that the Go project uses the issue tracker for bug reports and
proposals only. See https://golang.org/wiki/Questions for a list of
places to ask questions about the Go language.

[rf]: https://reneefrench.blogspot.com/
[cc3-by]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Commit message:

Add Microsoft build infrastructure
Infrastructure copied from 093bf286, microsoft/release-branch.go1.17.

README.md, after:

# The Go Programming Language

Go is an open source programming language that makes it easy to build simple,
reliable, and efficient software.

This repository, https://github.com/microsoft/go, contains the source for Go and
the infrastructure used by Microsoft to build Go. See
[`eng/README.md`](eng/README.md) for more information.

![Gopher image](https://golang.org/doc/gopher/fiveyears.jpg)
*Gopher image by [Renee French][rf], licensed under [Creative Commons 3.0 Attributions license][cc3-by].*

The canonical Git repository is located at https://go.googlesource.com/go.

Unless otherwise noted, the Go source files are distributed under the
BSD-style license found in the LICENSE file.

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.
