eng/doc/fips/README.md, before:

This directory contains documentation about FIPS and the FIPS implementation in the Microsoft fork of Go.

* README.md (this file): a general overview and first steps.
* [**FIPS 140-2 User Guide** (UserGuide.md)](UserGuide.md): notes on FIPS compliance of specific crypto APIs.

# Crypto FIPS 140-2 support

## Background

FIPS 140-2 is a U.S. government computer security standard used to approve cryptographic modules. FIPS compliance may come up when working with U.S. government and other regulated industries.

### Go FIPS compliance

The Go `crypto` package is not FIPS certified, and the Go team has stated that it won't be, e.g. in [golang/go/issues/21734](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/21734#issuecomment-326980213) Adam Langley says:

> The status of FIPS 140 for Go itself remains "no plans, basically zero chance".

On the other hand, Google maintains the [goexperiment](https://pkg.go.dev/internal/goexperiment) `boringcrypto`, that uses cgo and BoringSSL to implement various crypto primitives. As BoringSSL is FIPS 140-2 certified, an application built using this flag is more likely to be FIPS 140-2 compliant, yet Google does not provide any liability about the suitability of this code in relation to the FIPS 140-2 standard.

In addition to that, the boringcrypto flag also provides a mechanism to restrict all TLS configuration to FIPS-approved settings. The effect is triggered by importing the fipsonly package anywhere in a program, as in:

```go
  import _ "crypto/tls/fipsonly"
```

Prior to Go 1.19, the boringcrypto changes were maintained in the `dev.boringcrypto*` branches of Go: https://github.com/golang/go/blob/dev.boringcrypto/README.boringcrypto.md. For more details about the merge, see [golang/go#51940](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/51940). Support for Go versions prior to 1.19 has ended, and the `dev.boringcrypto*` branches are no longer maintained. For historical information about versions of Go prior to 1.19, see [this snapshot of this FIPS documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/go/tree/v1.20.4-1/eng/doc/fips) that includes details about FIPS in 1.18. The remainder of this doc only applies to supported versions of Go.

## Microsoft Go fork FIPS compliance

The Microsoft Go fork modifies the Go runtime to implement several crypto primitives using cgo to call into a platform-provided cryptographic library rather than use the standard Go crypto implementations. This allows Go programs to use a platform-provided FIPS 140-2 certified crypto library.

On Linux, the fork uses [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) through the [go-crypto-openssl] module. On Windows, [CNG](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/seccng/about-cng), using [go-crypto-winnative]. Similar to BoringSSL, certain OpenSSL and CNG versions are FIPS 140-2 certified.

It is important to note that an application built with Microsoft's Go toolchain and running in FIPS compatible mode is not FIPS compliant _per-se_. It is the responsibility of the application development team to use FIPS-compliant crypto primitives and workflows. The modified crypto runtime will fall back to Go standard library crypto in case it cannot provide a FIPS-compliant implementation, e.g. when hashing a message using `crypto/md5` hashes or when using an AES-GCM cipher with a non-standard nonce size.

## Usage: Build

The `GOEXPERIMENT` environment variable is used at build time to select a cryptographic library backend. This modifies the Go runtime included in the program to use the specified platform-provided cryptographic library whenever it calls a Go standard library crypto API. The `GOEXPERIMENT` values are:

- `opensslcrypto` selects OpenSSL, for Linux
- `cngcrypto` selects CNG, for Windows
- Default: uses Go standard library cryptography

The `GOEXPERIMENT` to pick in a cross-build scenario is the one that matches the target platform, not the build platform. For example, if you build an app on a Linux build container and the app binary will run on Windows, you need to add `GOEXPERIMENT=cngcrypto`.

The Microsoft Go fork must be used for these `GOEXPERIMENT` values to work. See setup instructions in [the distribution section of the microsoft/go readme](https://github.com/microsoft/go#binary-distribution).

> "Experiment" doesn't indicate the FIPS features are experimental. The original intent of `GOEXPERIMENT` is to use it to enable experimental features in the Go runtime and toolchain, but we and Google are now using `GOEXPERIMENT` for this FIPS-related feature because the mechanism itself perfectly fits our needs.

Any method of setting the build's `GOEXPERIMENT` environment variable will work. The next sections describe some recommended methods.

### Dockerfile `env` instruction

If you build a Go program in a Dockerfile, use an `env` instruction before the build instruction in your Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
env GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto
```

```dockerfile
env GOEXPERIMENT=cngcrypto
```

Or, if you're building a program to run on Linux, you can avoid adding the `env` instruction by using the special Microsoft Go images marked with `-fips-`. These images include `env GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto` and are otherwise the same as the non`-fips-` images. These exist for convenience. See [the microsoft/go-images documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/go-images) for more information about available images and how to use them.

### Modify the build command

Another approach is to modify the build command or build script.

In a standard Linux shell:

- Set the environment variable for all future commands:
  ```sh
  export GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto
  go build ./myapp
  go build ./myapp2
  ```
- Or set the environment variable for only one command:
  ```
  GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto go build ./myapp
  ```

In PowerShell:
- ```pwsh
  $env:GOEXPERIMENT = "cngcrypto"
  go build ./myapp
  ```

## Usage: Runtime

A program built with `opensslcrypto` always uses the OpenSSL library present on the system for crypto APIs. Likewise for `cngcrypto` and CNG. If the platform's crypto library can't be found or loaded, the Go program panics during initialization.

The following sections describe how to enable FIPS mode.

### Linux FIPS mode (OpenSSL)

To set FIPS mode on Linux, use one of the following options. The first match wins:

- Explicitly enable it by setting the environment variable `GOFIPS=1`.
- Explicitly disable it by setting the environment variable `GOFIPS=0`.
- Implicitly enable it by booting the Linux Kernel in FIPS mode.
  - Linux FIPS mode sets the content of `/proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled` to `1`. The Go runtime reads this file.

If the Go runtime detects a FIPS preference, it configures OpenSSL during program initialization. This includes disabling FIPS mode if `GOFIPS=0`. If configuration fails, program initialization panics.

If no option is detected, the Go runtime doesn't set the OpenSSL FIPS mode, and the standard OpenSSL configuration is left unchanged. For more information about the standard OpenSSL FIPS behavior, see https://www.openssl.org/docs/fips.html.

### Windows FIPS mode (CNG)

To enable FIPS mode on Windows, [enable the Windows FIPS policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/fips-140-validation#step-3-enable-the-fips-security-policy). For testing purposes, this can be set via the registry key `HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\FipsAlgorithmPolicy`, dword value `Enabled` set to `1`.

To make the Go runtime panic during program initialization if FIPS mode is not enabled, set the environment variable `GOFIPS=1`.

> Unlike `opensslcrypto`, a Windows program built with `cngcrypto` doesn't include the ability to enable/disable FIPS, only ensure it's enabled. Windows FIPS mode is not a per-process setting, and changing it may require elevated permissions. Adding this feature would likely have unintended consequences.

## Usage: Extra runtime configuration options

### OpenSSL version override

The `opensslcrypto` Go runtime automatically loads the OpenSSL shared library `libcrypto` using [dlopen] when initializing. Therefore, dlopen's shared library search conventions also apply here.

The `libcrypto` shared library file name varies among different platforms, so a best effort is done to find and load the right file:

- The base name is always `libcrypto.so.`
- Well-known version strings are appended to the base name, until the file is found, in the following order: `3` -> `1.1` -> `11` -> `111` -> `1.0.2` -> `1.0.0`.

This algorithm can be overridden by setting the environment variable `GO_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE` to the desired version string. For example, `GO_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE="1.1.1k-fips"` makes the runtime look for the shared library `libcrypto.so.1.1.1k-fips` before running the checks for well-known versions.

## Features

### No code changes required

The steps above don't require any changes to the app's source code. These steps change the Go runtime, but the crypto APIs are the same. The Go runtime will then favor OpenSSL/CNG crypto primitives over the Go standard library implementation.

Note that while using a FIPS-certified cryptographic module is a FIPS requirement, it is not the only one. Code changes may be needed for a specific app to conform to FIPS in ways that can't be fixed simply by using a modified Go runtime. For example, algorithms and key sizes forbidden by FIPS 140-2 need to be removed from the app without breaking it. Misuse of approved algorithms must also be fixed. For more information, see the [FIPS User Guide](UserGuide.md).

### Multiple OpenSSL versions allowed

The `opensslcrypto` Go runtime supports multiple OpenSSL versions. It discovers and picks the OpenSSL version to use at runtime, not compile time. This helps make the feature easy to incorporate in existing builds.

Not all OpenSSL versions are supported. OpenSSL does not maintain ABI compatibility between different releases, even if only the patch version is increased, it needs specific attention to implement support. The relative importance of each version also results in a different amount of automated testing that has been implemented for various supported version. These are supported versions and the amount of automated validation for each one:

- OpenSSL 1.1.1: the Microsoft CI builds official releases and runs the Go toolset test suite with this version.
- OpenSSL 1.0.2, 1.1.0, 1.1.1, and 3.0.2: the [go-crypto-openssl] repository CI tests basic operation, but not the integration with the Go runtime.

Versions not listed above are not supported at all.

### Dynamic linking

Dynamic linking (as opposed to static linking) is a requirement for an app to be considered FIPS compliant in Microsoft. The approach the modified Go runtime takes meets that requirement.

For OpenSSL, Go uses [dlopen] when initializing. Sometimes this is called *dynamic loading* and not considered part of the *dynamic linking* category (https://stackoverflow.com/a/45959845), but it satisfies requirements for the same reasons as dynamic linking: the OpenSSL library provided by the OS/environment is used, and the app doesn't necessarily have to be rebuilt to take an update.

For CNG, Go uses Windows syscalls to call the CNG APIs. This can also not be considered *dynamic linking*, but like *dynamic loading*, syscalls also mean the app is using OS-provided crypto functionality.

It's common in the Go ecosystem to statically link all dependencies to produce a single binary that can run standalone (e.g. in a minimal Docker container). Unfortunately, the requirements of FIPS and the way it's implemented in Microsoft mean this is not possible for a Go program that uses the Microsoft Go runtime and FIPS features. If you are responsible for a Go app in Microsoft and this is impossible, contact the crypto board for more details. We opened an issue to discuss support for static linking: [microsoft/go#744 *OpenSSL static linking proposal*](https://github.com/microsoft/go/issues/744). However, as we learned this would not be considered FIPS compliant for use in Microsoft, we don't have any plans to implement it.

### Portable OpenSSL

The OpenSSL bindings are implemented in such a way that the OpenSSL version used when building a program does not have to match with the OpenSSL version used when running it. It is even possible to build a program using plain Go crypto (i.e. setting `GOFIPS=0`) and then running that same program in FIPS mode.

This feature does not require any additional configuration, but it only works with OpenSSL versions known and supported by the Go toolchain.

### TLS with FIPS-approved settings

The Go TLS stack will automatically use OpenSSL crypto primitives when running in FIPS mode. Yet, the FIPS 140-2 standard places additional restrictions on TLS communications, mainly on which cyphers and signers are allowed.

A program can import the `crypto/tls/fipsonly` package to configure the Go TLS stack so it is compliant with these restrictions. The configuration is done by an `init()` function, so only importing it is necessary:

```go
  import _ "crypto/tls/fipsonly"
```

Note that this can reduce compatibility with old devices that do not support modern cryptography techniques such as TLS 1.2.

## Acknowledgements

The work done to support FIPS compatibility mode leverages code and ideas from other open-source projects:

- All crypto stubs are a mirror of Google's [dev.boringcrypto branch](https://github.com/golang/go/tree/dev.boringcrypto) and the release branch ports of that branch.
- The mapping between BoringSSL and OpenSSL APIs is taken from Fedora's [Go fork](https://pagure.io/go).
- Portable OpenSSL implementation ported from Microsoft's [.NET runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime) cryptography module.

## Disclaimer

A program running in FIPS mode can claim it is using a FIPS-certified cryptographic module, but it can't claim the program as a whole is FIPS certified without passing the certification process, nor claim it is FIPS compliant without ensuring all crypto APIs and workflows are implemented in a FIPS-compliant manner.

[go-crypto-openssl]: https://github.com/microsoft/go-crypto-openssl
[go-crypto-winnative]: https://github.com/microsoft/go-crypto-winnative
[dlopen]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/dlopen.3.html

Commit message:

Describe multiple GOEXPERIMENTs, mention boringcrypto

eng/doc/fips/README.md, after:

This directory contains documentation about FIPS and the FIPS implementation in the Microsoft fork of Go.

* README.md (this file): a general overview and first steps.
* [**FIPS 140-2 User Guide** (UserGuide.md)](UserGuide.md): notes on FIPS compliance of specific crypto APIs.

# Crypto FIPS 140-2 support

## Background

FIPS 140-2 is a U.S. government computer security standard used to approve cryptographic modules. FIPS compliance may come up when working with U.S. government and other regulated industries.

### Go FIPS compliance

The Go `crypto` package is not FIPS certified, and the Go team has stated that it won't be, e.g. in [golang/go/issues/21734](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/21734#issuecomment-326980213) Adam Langley says:

> The status of FIPS 140 for Go itself remains "no plans, basically zero chance".

On the other hand, Google maintains the [goexperiment](https://pkg.go.dev/internal/goexperiment) `boringcrypto`, that uses cgo and BoringSSL to implement various crypto primitives. As BoringSSL is FIPS 140-2 certified, an application built using this flag is more likely to be FIPS 140-2 compliant, yet Google does not provide any liability about the suitability of this code in relation to the FIPS 140-2 standard.

In addition to that, the boringcrypto flag also provides a mechanism to restrict all TLS configuration to FIPS-approved settings. The effect is triggered by importing the fipsonly package anywhere in a program, as in:

```go
  import _ "crypto/tls/fipsonly"
```

Prior to Go 1.19, the boringcrypto changes were maintained in the `dev.boringcrypto*` branches of Go: https://github.com/golang/go/blob/dev.boringcrypto/README.boringcrypto.md. For more details about the merge, see [golang/go#51940](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/51940). Support for Go versions prior to 1.19 has ended, and the `dev.boringcrypto*` branches are no longer maintained. For historical information about versions of Go prior to 1.19, see [this snapshot of this FIPS documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/go/tree/v1.20.4-1/eng/doc/fips) that includes details about FIPS in 1.18. The remainder of this doc only applies to supported versions of Go.

## Microsoft Go fork FIPS compliance

The Microsoft Go fork modifies the Go runtime to implement several crypto primitives using cgo to call into a platform-provided cryptographic library rather than use the standard Go crypto implementations. This allows Go programs to use a platform-provided FIPS 140-2 certified crypto library.

On Linux, the fork uses [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) through the [go-crypto-openssl] module. On Windows, [CNG](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/seccng/about-cng), using [go-crypto-winnative]. Similar to BoringSSL, certain OpenSSL and CNG versions are FIPS 140-2 certified.

It is important to note that an application built with Microsoft's Go toolchain and running in FIPS compatible mode is not FIPS compliant _per-se_. It is the responsibility of the application development team to use FIPS-compliant crypto primitives and workflows. The modified crypto runtime will fall back to Go standard library crypto in case it cannot provide a FIPS-compliant implementation, e.g. when hashing a message using `crypto/md5` hashes or when using an AES-GCM cipher with a non-standard nonce size.

## Usage: Build

The `GOEXPERIMENT` environment variable is used at build time to select a cryptographic library backend. This modifies the Go runtime included in the program to use the specified platform-provided cryptographic library whenever it calls a Go standard library crypto API. The `GOEXPERIMENT` values that pick a crypto backend are:

- `opensslcrypto` selects OpenSSL, for Linux
- `cngcrypto` selects CNG, for Windows
- `boringcrypto` selects the upstream BoringCrypto backend, which is **not supported**

If no crypto backend option is selected, Go standard library cryptography is used. The options are exclusive and must not be enabled at the same time as one another.

Multiple `GOEXPERIMENT` values can be specified using a comma separator, e.g. `GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto,loopvar`. It is allowed to combine other experiments with one crypto backend experiment. For more information about other Go experiments, read the output of the command `go doc internal/goexperiment` to see the experiments available in your specific build of the Go toolset, or check [the online goexperiment package doc](https://pkg.go.dev/internal/goexperiment) to see the options for other versions.

The `GOEXPERIMENT` to pick in a cross-build scenario is the one that matches the target platform, not the build platform. For example, if you build an app on a Linux build container and the app binary will run on Windows, you need to add `GOEXPERIMENT=cngcrypto`.

The Microsoft Go fork must be used for these `GOEXPERIMENT` values to work. See setup instructions in [the distribution section of the microsoft/go readme](https://github.com/microsoft/go#binary-distribution).

> "Experiment" doesn't indicate the FIPS features are experimental. The original intent of `GOEXPERIMENT` is to use it to enable experimental features in the Go runtime and toolchain, but we and Google are now using `GOEXPERIMENT` for this FIPS-related feature because the mechanism itself perfectly fits our needs.

Any method of setting the build's `GOEXPERIMENT` environment variable will work. The next sections describe some recommended methods.

### Dockerfile `env` instruction

If you build a Go program in a Dockerfile, use an `env` instruction before the build instruction in your Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
env GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto
```

```dockerfile
env GOEXPERIMENT=cngcrypto
```

Or, if you're building a program to run on Linux, you can avoid adding the `env` instruction by using the special Microsoft Go images marked with `-fips-`. These images include `env GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto` and are otherwise the same as the non`-fips-` images. These exist for convenience. See [the microsoft/go-images documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/go-images) for more information about available images and how to use them.

### Modify the build command

Another approach is to modify the build command or build script.

In a standard Linux shell:

- Set the environment variable for all future commands:
  ```sh
  export GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto
  go build ./myapp
  go build ./myapp2
  ```
- Or set the environment variable for only one command:
  ```
  GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto go build ./myapp
  ```

In PowerShell:
- ```pwsh
  $env:GOEXPERIMENT = "cngcrypto"
  go build ./myapp
  ```

## Usage: Runtime

A program built with `opensslcrypto` always uses the OpenSSL library present on the system for crypto APIs. Likewise for `cngcrypto` and CNG. If the platform's crypto library can't be found or loaded, the Go program panics during initialization.

The following sections describe how to enable FIPS mode.

### Linux FIPS mode (OpenSSL)

To set FIPS mode on Linux, use one of the following options. The first match wins:

- Explicitly enable it by setting the environment variable `GOFIPS=1`.
- Explicitly disable it by setting the environment variable `GOFIPS=0`.
- Implicitly enable it by booting the Linux Kernel in FIPS mode.
  - Linux FIPS mode sets the content of `/proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled` to `1`. The Go runtime reads this file.

If the Go runtime detects a FIPS preference, it configures OpenSSL during program initialization. This includes disabling FIPS mode if `GOFIPS=0`. If configuration fails, program initialization panics.

If no option is detected, the Go runtime doesn't set the OpenSSL FIPS mode, and the standard OpenSSL configuration is left unchanged. For more information about the standard OpenSSL FIPS behavior, see https://www.openssl.org/docs/fips.html.

### Windows FIPS mode (CNG)

To enable FIPS mode on Windows, [enable the Windows FIPS policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/fips-140-validation#step-3-enable-the-fips-security-policy). For testing purposes, this can be set via the registry key `HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\FipsAlgorithmPolicy`, dword value `Enabled` set to `1`.

To make the Go runtime panic during program initialization if FIPS mode is not enabled, set the environment variable `GOFIPS=1`.

> Unlike `opensslcrypto`, a Windows program built with `cngcrypto` doesn't include the ability to enable/disable FIPS, only ensure it's enabled. Windows FIPS mode is not a per-process setting, and changing it may require elevated permissions. Adding this feature would likely have unintended consequences.

## Usage: Extra runtime configuration options

### OpenSSL version override

The `opensslcrypto` Go runtime automatically loads the OpenSSL shared library `libcrypto` using [dlopen] when initializing. Therefore, dlopen's shared library search conventions also apply here.

The `libcrypto` shared library file name varies among different platforms, so a best effort is done to find and load the right file:

- The base name is always `libcrypto.so.`
- Well-known version strings are appended to the base name, until the file is found, in the following order: `3` -> `1.1` -> `11` -> `111` -> `1.0.2` -> `1.0.0`.

This algorithm can be overridden by setting the environment variable `GO_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE` to the desired version string. For example, `GO_OPENSSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE="1.1.1k-fips"` makes the runtime look for the shared library `libcrypto.so.1.1.1k-fips` before running the checks for well-known versions.

## Features

### No code changes required

The steps above don't require any changes to the app's source code. These steps change the Go runtime, but the crypto APIs are the same. The Go runtime will then favor OpenSSL/CNG crypto primitives over the Go standard library implementation.

Note that while using a FIPS-certified cryptographic module is a FIPS requirement, it is not the only one. Code changes may be needed for a specific app to conform to FIPS in ways that can't be fixed simply by using a modified Go runtime. For example, algorithms and key sizes forbidden by FIPS 140-2 need to be removed from the app without breaking it. Misuse of approved algorithms must also be fixed. For more information, see the [FIPS User Guide](UserGuide.md).

### Multiple OpenSSL versions allowed

The `opensslcrypto` Go runtime supports multiple OpenSSL versions. It discovers and picks the OpenSSL version to use at runtime, not compile time. This helps make the feature easy to incorporate in existing builds.

Not all OpenSSL versions are supported. OpenSSL does not maintain ABI compatibility between different releases, even if only the patch version is increased, it needs specific attention to implement support. The relative importance of each version also results in a different amount of automated testing that has been implemented for various supported version. These are supported versions and the amount of automated validation for each one:

- OpenSSL 1.1.1: the Microsoft CI builds official releases and runs the Go toolset test suite with this version.
- OpenSSL 1.0.2, 1.1.0, 1.1.1, and 3.0.2: the [go-crypto-openssl] repository CI tests basic operation, but not the integration with the Go runtime.

Versions not listed above are not supported at all.

### Dynamic linking

Dynamic linking (as opposed to static linking) is a requirement for an app to be considered FIPS compliant in Microsoft. The approach the modified Go runtime takes meets that requirement.

For OpenSSL, Go uses [dlopen] when initializing. Sometimes this is called *dynamic loading* and not considered part of the *dynamic linking* category (https://stackoverflow.com/a/45959845), but it satisfies requirements for the same reasons as dynamic linking: the OpenSSL library provided by the OS/environment is used, and the app doesn't necessarily have to be rebuilt to take an update.

For CNG, Go uses Windows syscalls to call the CNG APIs. This can also not be considered *dynamic linking*, but like *dynamic loading*, syscalls also mean the app is using OS-provided crypto functionality.

It's common in the Go ecosystem to statically link all dependencies to produce a single binary that can run standalone (e.g. in a minimal Docker container). Unfortunately, the requirements of FIPS and the way it's implemented in Microsoft mean this is not possible for a Go program that uses the Microsoft Go runtime and FIPS features. If you are responsible for a Go app in Microsoft and this is impossible, contact the crypto board for more details. We opened an issue to discuss support for static linking: [microsoft/go#744 *OpenSSL static linking proposal*](https://github.com/microsoft/go/issues/744). However, as we learned this would not be considered FIPS compliant for use in Microsoft, we don't have any plans to implement it.

### Portable OpenSSL

The OpenSSL bindings are implemented in such a way that the OpenSSL version used when building a program does not have to match with the OpenSSL version used when running it. It is even possible to build a program using plain Go crypto (i.e. setting `GOFIPS=0`) and then running that same program in FIPS mode.

This feature does not require any additional configuration, but it only works with OpenSSL versions known and supported by the Go toolchain.

### TLS with FIPS-approved settings

The Go TLS stack will automatically use OpenSSL crypto primitives when running in FIPS mode. Yet, the FIPS 140-2 standard places additional restrictions on TLS communications, mainly on which cyphers and signers are allowed.

A program can import the `crypto/tls/fipsonly` package to configure the Go TLS stack so it is compliant with these restrictions. The configuration is done by an `init()` function, so only importing it is necessary:

```go
  import _ "crypto/tls/fipsonly"
```

Note that this can reduce compatibility with old devices that do not support modern cryptography techniques such as TLS 1.2.

## Acknowledgements

The work done to support FIPS compatibility mode leverages code and ideas from other open-source projects:

- All crypto stubs are a mirror of Google's [dev.boringcrypto branch](https://github.com/golang/go/tree/dev.boringcrypto) and the release branch ports of that branch.
- The mapping between BoringSSL and OpenSSL APIs is taken from Fedora's [Go fork](https://pagure.io/go).
- Portable OpenSSL implementation ported from Microsoft's [.NET runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime) cryptography module.

## Disclaimer

A program running in FIPS mode can claim it is using a FIPS-certified cryptographic module, but it can't claim the program as a whole is FIPS certified without passing the certification process, nor claim it is FIPS compliant without ensuring all crypto APIs and workflows are implemented in a FIPS-compliant manner.

[go-crypto-openssl]: https://github.com/microsoft/go-crypto-openssl
[go-crypto-winnative]: https://github.com/microsoft/go-crypto-winnative
[dlopen]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/dlopen.3.html
